A quick note on the difference between
Online Analytical Processing or OLAP or OLTP, Online Transaction Processing.
Online Analytical Processing or OLAP.
Database optimization for these workloads allow for complex analytics and ad hoc queries.
These types of databases are optimized for read.
Online Transactional Processing, OLTP.
Databases optimized for these workloads allow for less complex queries in large volumes.
The types of queries for these databases are read,
insert, update, and delete.
So, let's go through an example so we can understand the difference between the two.
OLAP query will tell you how many shoes,
last week, were sold in stores in California.
You can see that it's already an aggregation that you'd have to do to get that data.
You're doing analytics and aggregations on your data.
Those are OLAP queries.
An OLTP query will tell you the price of the shoes.
Imagine just doing a select star on a particular table and getting back a result.
OLAP queries will have little aggregations,
really if any, while OLTP will heavily focus on aggregations.